# R1 

## TODO LIST

- [x] this item is done
- [x] serial_poll - austin/nathan
- [x] comhand - caleb/austin
- [x] version - eammon
    - [x] R?, time made, or git hash)
    - [x] should print in the serial console on startup
- [x] help - caleb
- [x] exit - caleb
- [x] get date/time - eammon
- [x] set date/time - eammon
- [x] itoa - nathan
- [x] penguin ascii welcome art - austin
    - [x] Macaroni OS
    - [x] type help or exit
    - [x] version 
    - [x] CS450
- [x] make the readme better: - austin
    - [x] what is "freestanding C environment"
    - [x] group members and names at very bottom
    - [x] overview of directory structure
- [x] learn doxygen - austin
- [x] add a 'help' parameter to each command. automate this to print each of these on the regular help command, as well as in the user's guide.
- [x] user guide (everything must have ToC)
- [x] programmer guide (everything must have ToC)
- [x] contributions

## BEFORE SUBMITTING

- [x] regenerate the programmer guide

## DELIVERABLE

R1 is due Friday 9/12 by 8am. ONLY 1 team member need submit your code for the entire group. Your MUST create a tag and release to freeze the existing R1 code for me to access and then you can continue development of R2

Create a tag:
```
  git tag R1
  git push --tags
```

Automate the release process on Github:
- Navigate to the main page of the repository on GitHub.com.
- To the right of the list of files, click Releases.
- Click Draft a new release.
- Click Choose a tag, type a version number for your release, and press Enter. Alternatively, select an existing tag.
- If you are creating a new tag, click Create new tag

Remember to place a PDF of your user's manual and programmer's manual in the documents folder of your project.

You will submit the Link to your release, which I will download and grade

Grading is based on how well and completely you implement your interface, polling, and the basic commands


# COMMENTS

@austindriggs:
> @CEdwards04 @nat00008 @DrZomboss123 I couldn't assign this issue to more than one person. I've removed the `TODO.md` file. We will track tasks in issues.

