# R6 TODO LIST

Interrupt Driven I/O

## GOALS

- Implement a basic interrupt-drive serial port driver
    - Enable more efficient communication between your system and attached serial devices (e.g. terminal, another computer)
    - Handle external interrupt events
- Integrate this with all previous modules into a complete MPX


## FIX ANY BUGS FROM R5

- [ ] Remove command history - @austindriggs 


## USEFUL STRUCTURES

- [x] void idt_install(int vector, void (*isr)(void*)); (slide 11)
- [x] Device Control Block (DCB) (slide 13) - @nat00008 
- [x] I/O Control block (IOCB) (slide 14) - @CEdwards04 
- [ ] Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC) (??? Maybe Implemented Already) (Put in IOSchedular file) (slide 17)

## KERNEL FUNCTIONS

- [ ] Update sys_call() (slide 21/22)
- [ ] I/O Scheduler (slide 23-27)
     - [x] int serial_open(device dev, int speed); - @nat00008 
     - [x] int serial_close(device dev); - @nat00008 
     - [ ] int serial_read(device dev, char *buf, size_t len);
     - [ ] int serial_write(device dev, char *buf, size_t len);
- [ ] Assembly Routine serial_isr (slide 28-31)
     - [x] void serial_interrupt(void); - @CEdwards04 
     - [ ] void serial_input_interrupt(struct dcb *dcb); @DrZomboss123 
     - [ ] void serial_output_interrupt(struct dcb *dcb); @DrZomboss123 


## USER FUNCTIONS

- [x] Remove Block PCB (slide 33) - @austindriggs 
- [x] Remove Unblock PCB (slide 34) - @austindriggs 



## DOCUMENTATION

### General

- [x] updated version everywhere - @austindriggs 
- [ ] add all commands to the help message(s) - @austindriggs 
- [ ] color code error messages and stuff - everyone
- [ ] Add doxygen to all header files - everyone
- [ ] **Each member of the TEAM Must email me an individual legacy discussing how well the team did or did not function. ALSO, Highlight members who went above and beyond to help the project succeed.** - everyone!!!

### Docs

- [x] add legacy docs - @austindriggs 
- [ ] Regenerate the programmer guide - @austindriggs 
- [ ] Regenerate user guide (should be done already? maybe remove block/unblock) - @CEdwards04 
- [ ] Add to R6 column in contributions file. - everyone
- [ ] Tag the git commit with `R6` when done.


## DELIVERABLE

### General Notes

R6 is due Thursday 12/11 by 8am. ONLY 1 team member need submit your code. Your will create a tag and release to freeze the existing R6 code for me to access.


### What to submit

1. R6 Code: Make sure your final code is properly committed to your repository and tagged to create a release prior to 8am on the first day of oral exams (12/11). Ensure your Help command is up-to-date with all available commands. 
2. Updated manuals, both user’s manual and programmer’s manual. The final module add no new user commands. 
3. Updated contributions document. 
4. Each member of the TEAM Must email me an individual legacy discussing how well the team did or did not function. ALSO, Highlight members who went above and beyond to help the project succeed. 
5. **The oral exams will be in person in Mrs. Hayhurst’s office**


### Final Project Grade: 

(R1+R2+R3/R4 + R5 +R6 + Oral Exam + Attendance average)/700


### eCampus Deliverable:

Your final deliverable of your R6 executable is due Thursday 12/11 by 8am. ONLY 1 team member need submit your code. Your will create a tag and release to freeze the existing R6 code for me to access.

Older commands and new bonus submissions will ONLY be graded from a functioning R6. Your instructor will use the debugger to insure the components of your device driver function correctly

Create your tag carefully, there will be no resubmissions of R6
