# R3 AND R4 TODO LIST

Do R3 and Tag before starting R4.


## FIX ANY BUGS FROM R2

- [x] priority set causes page faults on moving the head of a queue to the back @CEdwards04 
- [x] Maybe indent the shown processes - @austindriggs 

## KERNEL LEVEL

### R3

- [x] Context Struct - @nat00008
- [x] ISR - @nat00008 
     - [x] sys_call context switching - @nat00008 

### R4

- [x] kmain(void) - remove call to command handler @CEdwards04  
- [x] Command Handler Process @CEdwards04 
- [x] System Idle Process @austindriggs 

## USER LEVEL

### R3

- [x] Yield - @nat00008
- [x] Load - @nat00008
     - [x] LoadR3, LoadR3Suspended, LoadProcess contexts - @nat00008
     - [x] resume all @DrZomboss123 
- [x] Remove create pcb command - @nat00008

### R4

- [x] `version.c`: update `version all` to hardcode R2/R3 and call latest R4. - @austindriggs 
- [x] `comhand.c`: check for all the commands below by doing empty if statements - @austindriggs 
- [x] `help.c`: should call `<file_help()>` for everything below. - @austindriggs 
- [x] `alarm`: TODO - someone

TODO


## BONUS OPPORTUNITIES

### EARLY SUBMISSION  BONUS

For Modules R2 through R6, Early Submission Bonus will apply as follows:
- The submission must receive a base score of at least 90 to be eligible
- Eligible submissions received between 24 and 48 hours before the due date will receive 1 bonus point
- Eligible submissions received between 48 and 72 hours before the due date will receive 3 bonus points
- Eligible submissions received more than 72 hours before the due date will receive 5 bonus points


### THESE FEATURES ARE OPTIONAL

Description: The following bonus add-ons to the MPX Project will expand both the aesthetics and functionality of your system. Each are worth 5 points, however, your group can only earn up to 20 points of bonus via these add-ons. Thus, you will receive bonus points for the first 4 add-ons you implement. Feel free, however, to implement as many as you want. You can, however, implement them at any time throughout the remainder of the semester. Their implementation will be evaluated during the final module evaluation.  

Current Bonus Add-ons:  
1. [~] Unique and Creative Start-up – To receive this add-on’s bonus points, your team must create a unique start-up sequence that will be displayed before the user enters the first command. This can be an interesting graphic or your group logo. Obviously, the abilities of our system are limited, but try to come up with something unique to your group’s Company name/System name. Have fun with this!  - @austindriggs 
2. [~] Variable Text Color – In a similar way to how you can implement the special keys in the terminal (delete, backspace, etc), there is also a way you can change the color of the text you are printing. You can receive this add-on’s points by having text printed out in a variety of colors. Perhaps have your error statements in a different color than the success output. Perhaps you have a variety of different colors in your Start-up display. Like the previous add-on, get creative and have fun with this. There is a wide assortment of things you can do with this.  @CEdwards04 and everyone
3. [ ] Command History – At the moment, there is no functionality given to the up and down arrows. This add-on will give them something to do: Iterate through Command History. As you probably have figured out by now, while inside a UNIX terminal, you can use the arrow keys to populate the new line with a previously entered command. To complete this add-on, you must emulate that functionality. You will need to create a way to store previously entered commands in the proper order, have a way to iterate through them in both directions (up and down), and be able to populate the current line with the command from history. I recommend playing around with the UNIX terminal if you are having trouble understanding the functionality I explained above. Also limit the history to the last 5 commands issued in comhand - @austindriggs 
4. [~] Clear – This bonus will involve creating a new command for the user. The “Clear” or “clear” command should simply blank the terminal, where the top of terminal is a new line for the user to enter their next command. This functionality may prove useful for other features (both bonus and required) in the future. If you have a menu interface, redisplay your menu  - @CEdwards04 
5. [ ] Additional load commands: create a unique load command for EACH of your R3 test processes, which will load them into a ready suspended state, so they will only dispatch when I manually resume them. Also allow me to set the priority of the process I load


## DOCUMENTATION

Documentation:
- [ ] Add doxygen to all header files - everyone
- [ ] Regenerate the programmer guide - @austindriggs 
- [ ] Regenerate user guide - @CEdwards04 
- [ ] Add to R3 and R4 column in contributions file. - everyone
- [ ] Code review the wednesday before submission - everyone
- [ ] remember to list the bonus features that we did (see above)

# DELIVERABLE

R3 and R4 is due Friday 10/31 by 8am. ONLY 1 team member need submit your code. Your will create two tags one for R3 and a separate one for R4. This will allow you to freeze each module separately and allow you to continue with R5.

Create a tag 
```
 git tag R3
 git push --tag
```
repeat again for R4

Automate the release process on Github. Navigate to the main page of the repository on GitHub.com. To the right of the list of files, click Releases. Click Draft a new release. Click Choose a tag, type a version number for your release, and press Enter. Alternatively, select an existing tag. If you are creating a new tag, click Create new tag
Remember to place a  PDF of your user's manual and programmer's manual in the documents folder of your project.

You will submit the Link to your release, which I will download and grade

grading is based on how well processes disptach and IF you can dispatch in R3 and R4 multiple times. In R4 you should also see comhand and idle interleaving had have the ability to create multiple alarms

Each module is worth 50 points for a total of 100 points
